# What is it all about ?

I always liked the sense of survival in minecraft. The feel of loneliness and
wasteness of the world, generations, bioms, quazilore inspired me.

However the thing I didn't like was the technicalities and large amount of game
mechanics exploits. The way redstone farms abuses spawn mechanics to gain
absurd amount of items and xp was a bit disturbing for me. Once you reach past
one or two farms you're basically step to the _"next level"_ of Minecraft. Now
you can do much more, but the game feels like some sort of grinding creative
rather than survival. Mojang also seem to support this idea: each update brings
new ways to make the gameplay easier and safer. The satisfaction of traveling,
the rewards for curiosity is long gone since 1.15 for me to be honest.

With each new update new structures and generations were added to the game
which is really good and interesting part of an update cycle. However with this
structures new mobs and spawn areas was also added. This makes each new mob
loot easy to obtain via building farms. Some of this loot is not that
important, some is game-braking when abused (e.g totems of undying, shulkers).
This items totally change the way game feels and plays, from chill exploration,
traveling and bulding small bases, the game turns into extremely grindy,
time-consuming building simulator.

The mod packs also does not seem to be solving this problems. The ideas behind
more rich crafting tree or skills just makes the game feel more tedious and in
the same time rewarding. But it does not make it chill and simple. The core
idea of Minecraft is _"what you see is what you get"_. Sometimes there one or
two steps of indirection but rather than that nothing too complicated. Vast
majority of mod packs, however adds a ton of new features, which creates a lot
of more confusion. I don't think this is bad or wrong, this is just makes a
different game from Minecraft. Some pivots it to industry games, some to
building sims, some to RPGs. But the main idea and vide of Minecraft getting
more and more faded, to the point of complete change.
