# General ideas on game

Here I try to describe my bundled ideas about the game I have in mind, and
general ideas that aims to make it unique and interesting)

## General setting and atmosphere

Lonely deserted planet. Two suns in the sky. Hot, dunes and sand. World is full
of naturally occurring disasters: tornadoes, sand storms. Several small
western-like towns, which gives sense of loneliness and abandonment. Two-five
large cyberpunk cities that concentrate all civilization in planet. Rich
trading and economic system. Clear distinction in resource supply and demand.
Outlaws bands and rich multileveled crime-world. Setting generally can be
described as mixture between Mad Max, Fallout, Dune, Cyberpunk, Red Dead
Redemption, Mandalorian series. We take desert from Duna and Mad Max, large
cities similar to what Cyberpunk and Fallout have spice it up with villages
similar to Red Dead Redemption but in more cyber fashion like in Mandalorian
series.

## Main character

You play as a lonely bounty hunter, you seek, plan and capture criminals. You
have basic needs similar to what The Long Dark has but it's easier to maintain
and control the levels because of longer timings. You are not completely human
with modified parts but you tend to stay humane enough to not cause the Ship of
Perseus dilemma. You are a real person not an empty shell with silent dialogue
options (similar to Witcher). You have several robots helpers and you can play
as them (More of a gameplay feature). Your story lies rather on a trivial more
simple side of narrative. You are generated human, after the second riot for
the rights of intellectual creatures, human generation continued but with more
humane rules and freedoms. Still the attitude of originals and the general
public opinions causes a lot of conflicts and misunderstandings. You set
yourself a target to earn a right to be accepted in society and do good. You
tend to shaken this opinion quite often.

Conceptually this character is similar to Witcher and Mandalorian. Some unique
features would probably include less power and abilities with more thought
process and planning. You are not the most capable nor talented however you
have a lot of experience and knowledge. You a free to choose your own path and
do completely different from an archetype initially built into the character.
You can became merchant and earn money, you can became criminal, rob and kill,
you can integrate into society of a big cities, you can live solitary life.

## Gameplay

### General

The gameplay is basically split between visual narrative and tactics /
planning. Main character has no actual final goal or target, however it has
general missions and random (or not so random) encounters. The gameplay loop is
something along this lines:

  - Receive bounty mission in missives / from notice board / from npc.
  - Start planning and investigating about the general location and traits of
    outlaw.
  - Manage resources and needs of character.
  - Seek plan and destroy / capture target, loot / capture / free outpost.

This is the general route of character, most noticeable is full freedom and
realism in the way mission can be finished: you can free outlaw, you can kill
or capture, you can get captured. Other really controversial and in the same
time interesting idea is the absence of classical journal and map. I like when
the gameplay is dynamic, and fast paced, however in such game like this it is
more viable to make map and journal "up to player". Everything is up to you yo
remember and accomplish, there can be several quests and tasks that you can
simply forget if do not pay attention and it is completely normal. Also map is
not opened until you visit that location and without you scanner or equipment
you lose all ability to locate yourself other then up to you senses.

### NPC says no lies

Other notable thing i dislike in games is hyperbolization of enemy powers.
Often they just say some misinformation or plain simple lore, without more
details and information about mission. I want the NPC to be the source of truth
(or lies) that effectively crafts your journal and targets. If some buddy says
that this or that outlaw band is dangerous they really mean it and in you
current situation it is dangerous to go and deal with them, however based on
level of a player and their abilities npc's can notice that "Oh they are
dangerous but judging by your looks you are capable to deal with them" and so
on and so forth. Generally that means game will give you simple hint on whether
you are ready or not to ambush the band.

### Loneliness, rewards, fears

The Long Dark has this really nice feeling of danger, of inevitability, I
really want this game to have similar vibe. There needs to be minimum
information from interface and other outer sources to make it happen. You have
to be lonely one against the world, you have to fight. When you accomplish
something it is really rewarding, looting some higher level enemy getting their
equipment, doesn't just makes you stronger it makes you more **capable**. You
can loot map of a location, some tool that can unlock more interesting
locations, some skill point which are impossible to obtain just from playing
and advancing. You can upgrade your helper robots, you can find new
modification for yourself.

Sometimes in games you can emerge yourself really deep into the world and
atmosphere so that you really can feel some fears and inevitabilities that may
player feel. For example in Far Cry 3 there is starting mission where you get
captured. First time I played this game and listened to Vaas from cage, that
was really magical. When we escaped from outpost and did all the steals stuff,
nevertheless it was just the tutorial still it felt really emerging. In Fears
To Fathom there are also several occasions where the atmosphere just strikes,
sometimes it is just plain horror, but sometimes it makes you feel several
emotions at once it is both fascination and fear, and it's really what i wish
to incorporate in this games missions.

## Soundtrack and sound design

## Interface

## Plot and lore

## Show don't tell, quasi-lore

## Small details and general atmosphere

