I am a guy who lives with two other siblings, a brother and a sister, the important thing is that it is not from my perspective as David, these are completely different guys and I just from time to time as a narrator inhabit one brother (younger) or the other. There is also a dad, but he is not there yet, and we are alone now.

We live on a giant river, it has a bank (only one is visible in the dream), it is shallow and the bottom is visible - such a rocky rock. After this shallow bottom it goes further into an island, and trees and bushes grow further, but there is still water at the bottom. In addition, there are small islands around - giant stones from the same rock and trees and bushes grow in them here and there. The view in a dream sometimes drops below the water level and from this level you can see the depth, islands on the left and right, sunset, the depth of the ocean beyond the shallows is unknown...

The older brother has an amphibious motor boat (Hovercraft Christy something like that). The younger brother has such a board (Fliteboard EFoil something like that) he mostly swims somewhere near that boat, sometimes sails to the islands, and sometimes folds the board into the boat and swims with the older brother. There is also a sister, but there is quite little information about her. There is a lot of cargo in the amphibious boat and the brother is worried about her.

The information about where we live and whether there is anything on the island is not very clear (no one says this), but sometimes the face of the story moves into the eyes of birds and I see such buildings on giant trees and on the ground near the island too.

From my brother (in the younger brother's face) I hear that my father is about to arrive soon. And after a while, when the camera drops to the water level and it is visible that the sun is setting, 4 motor boats appear. The older brother notices this and quickly swims towards them. Two of the boats are shiny, two are painted, the boats themselves are completely covered, and have a futuristic and homemade look at the same time. Dad is sailing in the first boat and next to him is his friend (he somewhat resembles Jared Leto with long hair), they are pulling the other two. The boats, like the brothers', are very loaded. When asked what kind of boats these are, Dad replies that they are made of rocket skins, and that they still need to be worked on because in some places the skin is not completely airtight. Then we sail to the island and start pulling them to land...
